Documentation refresh for PGv2 (#171)
protocolguild/documentation: docs/02-membership.md

| [Chenyi Zhang](https://github.com/czhang-fm/) | 0.5 | Dependable Distributed Systems (DDS) | |

*Note: Protocol Guild's [split](https://app.splits.org/accounts/0xd4ad8daba9ee5ef16bb931d1cbe63fb9e102ec10/) contract contains all the above members plus one [multisig](https://app.safe.global/balances?safe=eth:0x69f4b27882eD6dc39E820acFc08C3d14f8e98a99) used for entity expenses.*

## 2.2 Membership Requirements

All current members have been contributing:

1. To one or more of the list of [eligible projects](https://protocol-guild.readthedocs.io/en/latest/01-eligibility.html).
2. Continuously for **at least 6 months** ahead of inclusion. This work is expected to be ongoing (e.g. not a short-term or one-off project). To avoid removal from the current membership, any breaks in contribution must be shorter than 1 quarter (3 months). Beyond this length, the member should be moved to "Inactive" status until contribution resumes.
3. In a roughly full-time capacity. Anything less receives a [partial weighting](https://protocol-guild.readthedocs.io/en/latest/02-membership.html#time-weight-formula).

## 2.3 Adding a Member

> An existing member should make a PR at [this repo](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation) which proposes an addition to the member list above, along with the accompanying info:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An existing member should open a pull request (PR) in [this repository](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation) which proposes an addition to the member list above, along with this accompanying information:
```

- Name / Identifier
- Affiliated project they work on which is eligible
- Links to relevant eligible work, eg. GitHub, research
- 3-4 sentence summary of their contributions

See some examples here: [open](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation/pulls) or [closed](https://github.com/protocolguild/documentation/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3A%22add+member%22) PRs

> Discussion should be open for at least one week to give members time to review and discuss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull requests should remain open for at least one week to give members time to review and discuss each nomination.
```

Bias or conflicts of interest of the nominator should be disclosed, if they exist, e.g. where one is an advisor to the other’s side project. After one week of rough consensus, the PR should be merged or rejected.

> ## 2.4 Removing a Member

Reviewer: Consider adding a line here saying that removals should also open a PR on the same file?

### Self-removal, affiliation, weights

Removals from the active membership should come from the member themselves, i.e. self-removal. Where this isn't possible due to extenuating circumstances, the member should be notified or tagged on the PR so they are aware of the changes.

Affiliation and weight changes should include some rationale for the change, ideally from the member themselves and seconding by a colleague.

### Forced-removal

> This situation occurs when another member proposes the removal of an existing member - even if they are continuing with eligible work. This should only happen in special circumstances where the cost of contention is higher than the loss of institutional legitimacy which their continued membership would produce.

Reviewer: "Forced Removal" sounds like the wrong title for this section. A proposed removal by another member should also be considered by others, so it isn't quite "forced". Perhaps we should rename this to Peer Removal?

Reviewer: And perhaps there are two things we want to distinguish here: a more benign peer-removal, e.g. "Tim isn't working at the EF anymore and hasn't bothered to remove himself from PG before moving to a remote island without wifi" and one that implies a breach of trust, e.g. "Tim claims to be working full time on Ethereum but outside of showing up for 90m on AllCoreDevs spends all his time not working on a remote island, here's proof!"

The PR should include ample references to the alleged misconduct and justification for the removal. To date, this method has never been used.

> ## 2.5 Time-Weight Formula

Reviewer: I wonder if we should rename this to "Split Share" and then have "Time Weight" be a subsection, where we make it clear that all the `time_weights` get normalized as a percentage, which is `split_share`.

The mechanism uses a formula with member-specific inputs to produce a time-weight:

`time_weight` = `SQRT`((`start_date` - `months_inactive`) * `full_or_part_time`)

Each member's time-weight is updated onchain every quarter along with an Ethereum address they control to allocate the funding flowing through the mechanism. Let's explore each of the formula components below.

1. `time_weight`

> Our formulation recognizes the local knowledge contributors gain over time, and uses that as a proxy for "value to the commons" and to allocate funding to members. Existing contributor weights get "diluted" as newcomers show up. Continuing contributors get additional weight per month they are active.

Reviewer: I would move this to the top and be more descriptive here, e.g. `time_weight` is a floating point number representing the square root of the time a member has been contributing to Ethereum, in $UNIT

2. `start_date`

> The mechanism is retroactive: the earlier a contributor shows up, the higher their weight allocation for funding.

Reviewer: Again, I'd be explicit about units used here.

3. `months_inactive`

> Members can take up to 3 months break without triggering a membership change. Beyond that, the mechanism tracks breaks to ensure weights are a fair representation of contributions.

Reviewer: May be worth adding a note about how this is calculated historically when new ppl join, potentially linking a PR with an example.

**Ansgar Dietrichs (Consensus R&D (EF))** - "I strongly believe that not enshrining a contributor funding mechanism into the base chain was the correct choice for Ethereum (crucial for its credible neutrality). But in order to keep attracting top level talent to the core dev space, we need to experiment with out-of-protocol ways of funding. Protocol Guild is a very exciting project in that regard and hopefully a first step towards a sustainable funding structure." <br><br>
**Anton Nashatyrev (TXRX)** - "I would really love to see Guild as an instrument for long term incentivisation of people who just want to develop Ethereum and don't want to worry about buying food for themselves tomorrow " <br><br>
**Carl Beekhuizen (Consensus R&D (EF))** - "As researchers we spend a lot of time worrying about incentive compatibility. This guild nudges us towards a better incentive landscape for those working on the protocol." <br><br>

> **Core Contributor** - "A diversified community will certainly benefit the entire Ethereum ecosystem in the long-term. I believe protocol guild is the right place to be for attracting multi-dimensional talents from various areas of strength, which is an ideal way that helps to maintain a healthy eco-system for the days to come." <br><br>

Reviewer: Should we use "Guild Member (Anonymous)" instead, to make it clear these are from PG people, and not any core contributor?

**Core Contributor** - "This type of a public funding should be main source of funds for such a projects like Ethereum blockchain research and development." <br><br>
**Core Contributor** - "With its rewards beyond casual wages or project grants, Protocol Guild inspires members to apply their efforts to the Ethereum development in unrehearsed ways and directions where forces of EF and big companies are missed. It preserves the strong community engagement over major pathways, which safeguards Ethereum's decentralization." <br><br>
**danceratopz (Testing (EF))** - "I believe the Protocol Guild will play an important role in helping ensure a sustainable future for Ethereum as a foundational public good. Its infrastructure enables Ethereum projects to channel funds into the protocol's continuous enhancement, thereby incentivizing and helping retain the dedicated individuals who work on its development. This system of support allows Ethereum's growth without reliance on a single or a collective group of entities. It even paves the way for core developers to operate independently of any organization, sustained by Guild-facilitated funding." <br><br>

> **Danny Ryan (Consensus R&D (EF))** - "Public goods are hard." <br><br>

Reviewer: I'd move the anon comments below all the non-anon ones, even perhaps in their own section. Otherwise, it feels like these are hidden.
